You need to have about 75 percent of your annual salary
in order to retire.
And this is roughly 25 percent less,
and not a hundred percent of your annual salary,
as you don't need to pay for taxes, income taxes,
I should say.
You don't need to pay for kids, hopefully at that age,
and you don't have to pay for transportation to work.
And vacations, entertainment, travel related fees
should increase when you retire,
and hopefully, by the time you reach retirement age,
you're going to love what you're doing,
so you can actually still work remotely using your laptop.
Virtual reality goggles, or whatever it's going to be
in the future, who knows.
So, in this exercise, I'm not including any
social security revenue here for you when you retire,
just to be conservative.
I'm also not going to include any allocation
for pension related stuff here, because most people
won't get a pension.
And again, I want to be conservative.
So this begs the question,
how much do you need per month,
and the general rule of thumb is to use a monthly multiplier
like 300 times.
Let me explain this.
So if you need a thousand dollars per month,
then use a three hundred multiplier.
This means if you need a thousand dollars per month,
then you need to have at least three hundred dollars
in savings.
If you need five thousand dollars per month
to survive when you retire,
then you're gonna need 5000 dollars times 300 dollars
which is 1.5 million dollars in savings.
This includes the value of your house
when I talk about savings, okay?
Many people actually downsize at retirement.
They sell their house and move to a smaller one,
as they don't need the extra rooms for kids.
They might want to have a one level house
or an apartment with an elevator,
as it can be cheaper as well to maintain that
than a larger house, okay?
Or some people actually by a cottage,
which is cheaper given the more
remote location if applicable,
so if you think you're gonna need a million dollars
when you retire, which means a million dollars
divided by three hundred
and this equals 3,333 dollars per month.
See, I just kind of changed that formula a bit.
And of course, please don't forget about taxes.
Will you take the money out of your retirement accounts.
And don't forget about inflation as well,
and the time value of money.
And this is why I want to be really conservative
and not have to rely on a penny from social security
or pension fund or inheritance, et cetera.
Let's also be conservative and assume that
taxes are going to be at least 50 percent
by the time you take money out of your savings account.
So that one million dollars that you might need to retire
is now two million dollars.
And I'm being very conservative here.
I don't know how much you want to have per month
when you retire, expenses wise.
I don't know where you live and the standard of living
that you want to have.
As such, what I'm going to do is this.
I'm gonna provide you with a retirement calculator
in this exercise and you can enter in
your own interest rates, how many years until you retire,
and the amount you need per month.
So please open up your complete personal finance dashboard
and go to exercise number ten,
which is called retirement needs.
And then, the default example here,
you can see that I calculated that if the interest rate
is nine and a half percent
and the difference between your age now
and the year you want to retire is 35 years,
then in order to get a million dollars in 35 years,
then the monthly contribution for the next 35 years
should be close to 300 dollars.
The math all makes sense here.
In the settings tab, you can change your current age
and the year you want to retire,
if you want to change these perimeters around.
And please play around with this,
so that you have a general conservative target,
so you can focus more time on saving for retirement.
Use the goal seek function
if you want to get an exact number,
which we talked about earlier in the course,
the goal seek function.
And as a side note, if you want,
look at your income statement in exercise number two
to see how much money you need to have monthly
then multiply it by 75 percent.
And also see your balance sheet in exercise seven
to see how much money you currently have already saved
in your retirement account and investment account,
if applicable.
Just remember that the rule of thumb is
that you need 75 percent of your current expenses
in order to live each month when you retire.
And that figure is 75 percent again
because you should not have to pay for kids then
and you won't have to pay for a mortgage
or as much for a mortgage or income taxes,
because you're not working.
Now, I also want to stress,
this figure is higher than you might think you need
because you'll still have to pay taxes on the money
that you're going to take out of your retirement account,
so just be conservative.
And 75 percent is a good benchmark to use.
And play around with the 300 time monthly factor multiplier
if you want as well.
I feel like I'm a waiter, hopefully a good waiter
with good food.
I want to kind of give you a menu of ways
to do things and you enter in your own perimeters, okay?
I know this is not an exact science,
as there's plenty of unknown variables
by the time you retire.
Please enjoy this exercise and as always
if you have any questions, please let me know.
Thank you.